Rhodes Skelton
Dr. O’Gwynn
Topics in Computer Science
November 9th, 2020
Phishing
        Phishing is a form of social engineering in which a computer user is tricked into giving information which can be used for illicit purposes by a scammer. Phishing attacks occur over email. While these types of attacks can be devastating for a victim, phishing scams can be avoided by being aware and alert when using email. Scammers will typically send mass emails to targeted groups of people with the email disguised as a legitimate company. The email will claim that immediate action is needed to prevent fraud or to confirm an identity. Victims of this scam will click on a link in an email that will send them to an imitation website. This website will usually display as a login page, however the victim will not be able to login. If the victim enters in their credentials, the scammers now have access to the user’s accounts on whatever platform the scammers were disguised as. Furthermore, people will typically use the same credentials on multiple platforms for ease of use. While this may make passwords easier to remember, it makes personal information security much worse, because if a password is revealed for one platform, it is revealed for all platforms. Phishing is a commonplace and devastating attack to those who fall victim to it, and understanding the history and technology behind the scam will help protect against future phishing attempts.
        While phishing is prominent in the modern world, it is still a relatively new scam. The term “phish” was coined in 1996 which is near the time where the scam began to take place. The term was modeled after the term “phreak” which is a type of scam used to obtain free phone calls initially used in the latter 20th century. The first phishers were users of AOL which required a credit card number to create an account. These original phishers would generate random credit card numbers which eventually would be correct and use the fraudulent accounts to spam other users for information. According to phishing.org[1], the warez community is credited with creating these original phishing attacks. Phishing scams evolved from randomly generating credit card numbers to buying domains similar to popular websites such as PayPal. 
In the early 2000’s, phishers started emulating these popular websites by having similar domains in order to trick victims into believing they were the legitimate company.  These early emails often contained email-worms. Worms can be a range of different things, typically they are malware or link to malicious sites. The worm code would run once the associated email attachment was opened or the link to a malicious website was clicked. These types of attacks resulted in massive losses to users of the internet. According to phishing.org[1], between May 2004 and 2005, 1.2 million users in the United States lost roughly $929 million dollars in phishing scams. The corporate mark is estimated to be around $2 billion per year just to phishing. The worms sent in email became more sophisticated as time progressed. In the early 2010’s, ransomware was being distributed which encrypted personal files on the victim’s machine when the code was run. The scammer would demand a ransom and when he or she received the money, they would send the key to unlock the encrypted files. Phishers are creative with how they manipulate users to steal information. From hiding code in pixels to be executed in memory at a later time to sending email links to fake google search results, phishers will find a way to get what they are searching for. For a phisher, not every attack needs to work. Not every recipient of malicious code has to activate it for the scammers to get their payday. It only takes a small percentage of successes for phishers to make a living. Often, scammers will target the elderly population as they tend to be more unaware about phishing scams. 
Spear phishing is a form of phishing in which specific individuals, groups, or businesses are targeted for a scam instead of casting a wide net. Spear-phishers will scout out these targets and gather information on how they can trick or exploit them. This type of attack is difficult to protect against as they are designed to trick a particular victim. For example, Sony executives were targeted by phishing emails in 2014 which resulted in a massive loss of information which cost the company around $100 million dollars in total[2]. Software Engineers were asked to verify their Apple ID credentials because of unauthorized activity on the account, and multiple engineers fell for the scam. The spear-phishers were able to scout targets through LinkedIn[3]. 
A successful phishing scam consists of gathering accurate intelligence of valid targets, designing an email that will deceive the target, and ensuring a proper delivery system of effective malware. Phishers will also provide areas to give information rather than using malware, furthermore some phishers will do both methods. Gathering accurate information is crucial to being able to effectively deceive targets, and it is needed to choose targets who have money, lucrative information, or access to lucrative information. Provided the rise of social media in the past years, this task can be fairly simple depending on the discretion of the target. Some users of social media platforms happen to be vocal about any and all aspects of their lives. Obtaining things such as credit card numbers may be as simple as scrolling through a user’s profile and looking at a picture that they have posted. However, most users have learned or know not to have that type of information publicly available. Therefore, to obtain such information, the phisher will need to continue with the scam. The primary information a phisher will be looking for is an email address to be able to send the malicious email. The email in question must appear to be legitimate in order for the target to relinquish sensitive information. HTML or proper formatting can be used in an email to make it appear as if it came from a specific company or group. Having the scammer use an email domain that appears similar to the imitated company’s domain will also make the malicious email to appear legitimate. Having obtained targets and finished crafting the proper email, the phisher will now need to be able to mass deliver an email with effective malware, a link to a website with effective malware or other methods used to obtain information. Building a website can be a simple task, however masking it to appear legitimate requires attention to detail. The phisher must make sure the signs of a scam are hidden enough to fool their targets. Typically, scammers will substitute letters with numbers in the domain or similar methods in order to make the URL still appear legitimate. These conditions, if done successfully, will be able to effectively phish multiple people. However, the above criteria are simply the ideal. 
        Phishers, not spear-phishers, are typically purchasing email lists from grey market sources. This eliminates the need to spend time creating a specific email list or performing much intelligence gathering. Furthermore, the emails sent to the users typically have spelling errors or are formatted in such a way that indicates the source is not legitimate. Since the typical modern person spends significant time on the internet, most users are able to “feel” when a website or email does not match the norm. Continuing the trend to the websites, phishing websites are known to have spelling errors and weird web design such that a typical user might be alerted to the scam. These websites will usually have lots of pop-ups that appear when the site is loaded. These will either download malicious software automatically, or provide a method for the user to do so.  Having explored the foundations of a phishing attack, demonstrating a basic form of attack will further illustrate the simplicity and ease in which a person can be scammed.
        Following the foundation set above, obtaining intelligence on our target will be the first course of action. The intelligence will be obtained by using open source intelligence techniques. Open source intelligence is the methodology of obtaining information from public sources. In other words, a practitioner of open source intelligence is able to obtain information on a specific person or group by observing information that the target may have posted to public sources[4]. Having access to a phone number can reveal location and occasionally carrier information. For instance, the author of this paper entered his number into the PhoneInfoga tool[5] which returned the author’s home city and carrier. When the author entered the number of his wife, it only returned the home city. PhoneInfoga automates the process of manually searching databases, phonebooks, and other public online resources to determine things such as location and carrier. Occasionally, the owner can be identified by their number. Next, using a website called Namechk[5], the author was able to view his own Facebook profile page which contained location information and educational history. Namechk enables users to see various platforms where a given username is being utilized. The author has been dormant on Facebook for roughly three years, however his wife regularly uses the site. Since the information is public, a potential scammer can now see images of the author simply by knowing his name along with other personal information. Using the information found on Facebook, the author found his wife’s maiden name and used both the married and maiden names to search for other accounts. The author was able to find his wife’s Pinterest account, which also revealed information about interests and hobbies. The open source intelligence community provides a wide variety of tools that can be used to gather public data efficiently. During a legitimate phishing scam, the phisher may want to spend more time gathering information, however there is enough gathered at this point to construct the email and website for this exercise. 
        The next step in constructing this phishing scam is creating a deceiving landing site to gather personal information such as credentials or credit card numbers. Blackeye is a phenomenal tool for creating an imitation of popular websites. It handles multiple problems that a scammer encounters when establishing a website, and it delivers the solution in an easy to use format. Deadeye, in its current state, can imitate thirty-seven websites and has the option to create a custom website[6]. However, the custom website does not appear so convincing. From the scammer’s perspective, Blackeye gives a link that is meant to be used by the target. The link does not resemble the target website in any way which is arguably the tool’s biggest weakness, however when the link is clicked, Blackeye delivers useful information. This information includes the target’s public IP address, operating system type and version, web browser type and version, and the internet service provider of the target. If the target falls for the phish after clicking the link, Blackeye will give the scammer the credentials entered in by the target in the terminal where Blackeye is run. Blackeye’s website also provides a TLS connection by default which is crucial in convincing targets that the site is valid. Getting a certificate to have a secure connection is not the most trivial of tasks for a scammer. There are websites such as Let’s Encrypt that give free certificates, however a user must have a specific URL to which the certificate is applied. Blackeye removes this problem from the phisher. The scammer will use information he or she gathered to decide on the most effective website to imitate. For this exercise, the author will be imitating the Pinterest website. Now that the information is gathered and the website is functional, the email needs to be created to fool the target to click the link generated by the Blackeye program.
        For sending mass emails in a normal phishing scam, the social engineering toolkit[7] provides a mass mailer tool to accomplish the task with relative ease. Circumventing mail filters will still be a struggle with the tool, however it will allow a user to send mass emails efficiently. For this exercise, the author will use the Gmail client with “burner” emails to demonstrate a spear-phishing attack. A “burner” email, in this context, is an email account that does contain any personal information for the purposes of a demonstration. Sending emails from the Gmail website allows the author to bypass spam filters to deliver the email to the inbox instead of the spam folder. With the email delivery method selected, the author will now disguise the link given by the Blackeye program in order to trick the target. This can be done simply by editing the text on the hyperlink which is accessible through the context menu in an email client. Phishers may use HTML to create an appearance of legitimacy when sending an email or they may simply just send the email in plaintext. HTML can lend some legitimacy to an email if done properly. This requires doing some investigation to properly emulate an email sent by a particular website. This email must also be worded properly to trick the target and also provoke immediate action by the target. The longer the target has to inspect or mull on the email, the less likely they are to fall for the scam. Using language that creates a sense of urgency will also make the target less likely to notice odd details such as the URL. With this step completed, the phishing scam is ready to be deployed. 
        Phishing scams will be used in the foreseeable future to scam people and companies out or their money and information. Short of completely shutting down the internet or eliminating email, there is no tool that will be able to stop humans from being phished. With the tools used above, anyone with a computer and internet access will be able to set up a basic scam. The only prerequisite knowledge needed is how to clone a repository which is something that can be easily learned from various online sources. Internet users, in general, should always be aware when browsing or accessing different websites, because there is no completely safe space on the internet. Phishing is here to stay and knowing the signs of a phishing attack will allow a user to avoid the attack and alert the proper authorities of this attack. If a user has not received a phishing email, it is only a matter of time before a scammer strikes. 
________________
Works Cited
[1] Phishing.org. The History of Phishing. Retrieved from https://www.phishing.org/history-of-phishing.


[2] Gregg Keizer. 2015. Sony hackers targeted employees with fake Apple Id emails (April 2015). Retrieved November 15, 2020 from https://www.computerworld.com/article/2913805/sony-hackers-targeted-employees-with-fake-apple-id-emails.html


[3]Kaspersky. What is Spear Phishing? - Definition. Retrieved from https://usa.kaspersky.com/resource-center/definitions/spear-phishing


[4] 0x4rkØ. 2019. Comprehensive List of OSINT Tools. Video. (23 November 2019). Retrieved November 16, 2020 from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SMxya-M6KhU&ab_channel=0x4rk%C3%98


[5] Null Byte. 2019. Find Information from a Phone Number Using OSINT Tools [Tutorial]. Video. (31 May 2019). Retrieved November 16, 2020 from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WW6myutKBYk&ab_channel=NullByte


[6] Namechk. Namechk tool. Retrieved from https://namechk.com/


[7] NetworkChuck. 2020. Phishing attacks are SCARY easy to do!! (let me show you!) // FREE Security+ // EP 2. Video. (28 October 2020). Retrieved November 17, 2020 from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u9dBGWVwMMA&ab_channel=NetworkChuck